---
title: Achievements
permalink: /clubs-and-societies/humanities-society-ac-hsac/achievements/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Humanities Society @ AC (HSAC)
---
<p><strong>Achievements (2023)</strong></p><p>Ever Since its inauguration, students from the HSAC have participated in a series of competitions such as the John Locke Global Essay Writing Competition, the Queen’s Commonwealth Essay Competition, the Singapore Introductory Moot Programme, and the History Bee and Bowl competitions organised by International Academic Competitions (IAC), attaining consistently strong results.</p><p>In the Queen’s Commonwealth Essay Competition 2023, Cherelle Lee Shi En (5.16) clinched the Silver Award, and Toh Jie Lie Caleb 1.11, and Joshua Ho Kai An (4.16) the Bronze Award. In the Hwa Chong Law Essay Competition 2023, Joshua Toh Qi Wei (6.15) and Timothy Renrui Hu Lagman (5.18) attained the first and third position respectively.</p><p>As for the History Bee and Bowl, on 15 April, two teams from HSAC competed in the Singapore National History Bee and Bowl competitions and emerged as champions in the Varsity and Junior Varsity divisions. Luke Ng (3.16) and Christian See (2.04) achieved first and second place respectively in the Middle School division, Michael Liew (6.15) and Bryan Sim (6.07) emerged second and third in the Varsity division respectfully while Isaac Koh (5.18) was third in the Junior Varsity division.</p><p>On 13 May, a team took part in the Online Regional Tournament, emerging as Junior Varsity champions in the Bowl while Luke Ng and Christian See clinched the first and third places respectively in the Bee.</p><p>From 16 to 18 June, the team then competed in the 2023 International Academic Competitions Asian Championships held in Khao Lak, Thailand. After rounds of intense competitions, the team emerged as Asian champions for the International History Bowl. Luke Ng clinched numerous titles including Middle School champion for the International History Bee. Christian See also won fourth placement in the Bee.</p><p>Finaly, from 23 July to 31 July, Luke Ng from (3.16) and Isaac Koh from (5.18) from HSAC participated in the International History Olympiad held in Rome, Italy. The History Olympiad, organised by the International Academic Competitions (IAC), is a prestigious academic competition designed to bring top history students from around the world together for an unforgettable two weeks of historically themed quizzes and activities. To qualify for the History Olympiad, students need to earn top placements in their respective local History Bee and Bowl.</p><p>In this Olympiad, Luke Ng 3.16 has emerged as champion in the Middle School's History Bowl, second in the Middle School's History Bee, gold in the Roman History and gold in Classical Music Bee. Luke is also the overall champion in the Middle School Division. As for Isaac Koh, he had attained the 8th position for the historiography exam and 9th for the written exam in the Junior Varsity division and participated in events such as the Symposium and the Pop Music History Exam.</p>